Thomson Reuters
Staff Software Engineer

Hybrid
locations
United States of America, New York, New York
United States of America, Frisco, Texas
Canada, Toronto, Ontario
United States of America, Ann Arbor, Michigan
United States of America, Eagan, Minnesota

Staff Software Engineer

The global capital markets are among the largest markets in the world valued at $50T+ and growing. Transactions in these markets are complex. Critical, nuanced legal terms are woven into lengthy documents. These documents must be digested and analyzed by many different parties over the course of a single transaction and multiple decisions are made based on the terms laid out and quantitative and qualitative attributes within. This fundamental need plus a booming market drives enormous demand for precise extraction and benchmarking of legal terms.

As a Staff Software Engineer, Full Stack at Noetica, you'll help build robust backend systems and APIs that power our search-centric web experience that's core to the workflow of our end users. This role is backend-leaning — you'll spend most of your time on server-side architecture, data processing, and API design, while also contributing to frontend features as needed. You will collaborate with a talented team of AI/ML PhDs, legal SMEs, and market strategists to design, build, and maintain scalable backend services. The backend service you will contribute to is the critical piece between our data product and our end users. Its system architecture decisions will influence the technical direction of our platform and decide our velocity of making impacts. Your contributions will directly impact the performance and reliability of Noetica's core infrastructure.

About the Role
In this opportunity as Staff Engineer, you will:

Design and build scalable backend services and APIs that power our document analysis platform
Write maintainable, high-performance server-side code and data processing pipelines
Define clear, efficient API contracts and contribute to service architecture decisions
Design and craft compositional API primitives to expedite the productionization of our ever growing list of document insights.
Build and maintain integrations with third-party services and internal ML systems
Contribute to frontend features and components as needed to deliver features end to end
Work on performance optimization for data-intensive backend operations
Take ownership in engineering excellence and collaborate on code practices and design patterns to ensure long-term maintainability and scalability.
Take ownership in developer experience by improving/automating CI/CD and other day to day production operations.

About You
You're a fit for the role of Staff Engineer, AI if your background includes:

Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Information Technology, or a related field (or equivalent experience)
7-10 years of professional full-stack development experience with a strong focus on backend systems
Proficiency in backend technologies (Node.js, Python, or Go) and API design
Strong understanding of RESTful APIs, database design, and data modeling
Experience with SQL and NoSQL databases
Familiarity with containerization and orchestration platforms (Docker, Kubernetes) and hyperscalers (AWS, GCP, etc.)
Proficiency in TypeScript and React for frontend work
Foundation in distributed systems, event-driven architectures, and web fundamentals
Strong communication and collaboration skills
Self-starting problem-solving approach biased towards action and scope minimization

Additional preferred qualifications include:

Experience with microservices architecture and message queues
Understanding of CI/CD fundamentals and experience working in single-tenant architectures
Experience building data processing pipelines or working with large-scale data systems
Familiarity with object-oriented design and functional programming principles
Experience optimizing backend performance for data-intensive applications
Interest in language and economics
Thrive in a high-leverage, fast-paced environment
Familiar with technologies like monorepo, jujutsu, mise, pprof, etc.
