Sr. Software Development Engineer, Bedrock AgentCore Knowledge Bases
Amazon.com Services LLC
New York, NY 10261

Full job description
Interested in high-scale distributed systems and Gen AI? Our team develops Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases, a fully managed service for end-to-end Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) workflow. Our team's mission is to make it easier for customers to build AI applications with contextual information from their enteprise data to deliver more relevant, accurate, and customized responses. We continuously develop new features to address real-world problems through research and innovation, such as 1/ integrating with Foundation Models (FM), agents, and data sources 2/ improving response quality by improving our existing pipeline and creating new pipelines 3/ introducing support for new content types and modality.

As a Senior Software Development Engineer (L6), you will provide technical leadership and own team-level architecture for our AI data pipeline and large-scale distributed systems serving our worldwide customer base. You will lead projects requiring work from multiple engineers, designing solutions for complex problems where the business direction is understood but the technology strategy needs to be defined. In this role, you will collaborate closely with a team of AI Applied Scientists and engineers across related teams, driving consensus on technical approaches and influencing the team's long-term technical roadmap. You will balance constraints between short-term delivery and long-term architectural needs, ensuring solutions are extensible, performant, and secure.

Key job responsibilities
Lead the design and implementation of distributed AI data pipelines and systems, providing system-wide architectural guidance
Balance speed of execution with architectural requirements, identifying one-way door decisions that require the right long-term solution
Drive adoption of engineering best practices and operational excellence across the team
Solve complex technical problems with multiple risks and roadblocks, bringing clarity through simple, well-designed solutions
Mentor and coach multiple engineers, helping develop the next generation of technical talent
Effectively communicate technical designs to both technical and non-technical audiences

About the team
This role is part of the Quick organization in New York. Knowledge Bases are strategic areas for both Quick and AgentCore with visibility at the highest leadership levels. This role offers a chance to scale our services and find opportunities to innovate on state-of-the-art Generative AI technology. You will be working closely with an exceptional group of product, engineering, and science leaders. If you are interested in building the future of Generative AI and Retrieval Augmented Generation, we'd love to hear from you!

BASIC QUALIFICATIONS
5+ years of non-internship professional software development experience
5+ years of programming with at least one software programming language experience
5+ years of leading design or architecture (design patterns, reliability and scaling) of new and existing systems experience
Experience as a mentor, tech lead or leading an engineering team

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
5+ years of full software development life cycle, including coding standards, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operations experience
Bachelor's degree in computer science or equivalent
